# Contributing to this projects

A big welcome and thank you for considering contributing to this!

Reading and following these guidelines will help us make the contribution process easy and effective for everyone involved. It also communicates that you agree to respect the time of the developers managing and developing these open source projects. In return, we will reciprocate that respect by addressing your issue, assessing changes, and helping you finalize your pull requests.

## Quicklinks

* [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
* [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  * [Issues](#issues)
  * [Pull Requests](#pull-requests)

## Code of Conduct

We take our open source community seriously and hold ourselves and other contributors to high standards of communication. By participating and contributing to this project, you agree to uphold our [Code of Conduct](/CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md).

## Getting Started

Contributions are made to this repo via Issues and Pull Requests (PRs). A few general guidelines that cover both:

* To report security vulnerabilities, please email <security@joggr.io>.
* Search for existing Issues and PRs before creating your own.
* We work hard to makes sure issues are handled in a timely manner but, depending on the impact, it could take a while to investigate the root cause. A friendly ping in the comment thread to the submitter or a contributor can help draw attention if your issue is blocking.

### Issues

Issues should be used to report problems with the library, request a new feature, or to discuss potential changes before a PR is created. When you create a new Issue, a template will be loaded that will guide you through collecting and providing the information we need to investigate.

If you find an Issue that addresses the problem you're having, please add your own reproduction information to the existing issue rather than creating a new one. Adding a [reaction](https://github.blog/2016-03-10-add-reactions-to-pull-requests-issues-and-comments/) can also help be indicating to our maintainers that a particular problem is affecting more than just the reporter.

### Pull Requests

PRs to our libraries are always welcome and can be a quick way to get your fix or improvement slated for the next release. In general, PRs should:

* Only fix/add the functionality in question **OR** address wide-spread whitespace/style issues, not both.
* Add unit or integration tests for fixed or changed functionality (if a test suite already exists).
* Address a single concern in the least number of changed lines as possible.
* Include documentation in the repo or on our [docs site](https://docs.joggr.io).
* Be accompanied by a complete Pull Request template (loaded automatically when a PR is created).

For changes that address core functionality or would require breaking changes (e.g. a major release), it's best to open an Issue to discuss your proposal first. This is not required but can save time creating and reviewing changes.

In general, we follow the ["fork-and-pull" Git workflow](https://github.com/susam/gitpr)

1. Fork the repository to your own Github account
2. Clone the project to your machine
3. Create a branch locally with a succinct but descriptive name
4. Commit changes to the branch
5. Following any formatting and testing guidelines specific to this repo
6. Push changes to your fork
7. Open a PR in our repository and follow the PR template so that we can efficiently review the changes.

## Development

### Husky & Pre-Commit Hooks

You need to set up Husky before you can start developing. This will ensure that your commits are linted and tested before they are pushed to the remote.

```bash
husky install
```

## Publishing

### Increment Version

Pull the repo locally, and run `npm version` with the correct version (tag) as determined by the release draft OR based on your own determination (i.e. `eslint` _minor_ is not a project _minor_).

### Build & Packaging

We have a custom script that builds & packages all the necessary files for publishing. 

```bash
# 🚨 WARNING 🚨 - this is only used if you are pushing locally or testing the script! (it runs in CI automatically)
$ npm run package
```

You will notice in the `package.json` it is pointing at the `index.js` which doesn't exist. This is because the package.json is copied verbatim and the `index.js` is generated by the build script in the `dist` directory.

### Releasing 

All releases are handled via the GitHub release publishing process. Release notes are automatically created based on the 
merged pull requests. To cut a release you need to do the following:

1. Check the current release draft for the version (tag)
2. Pull the repo locally, and run `npm version` with the correct version (tag) as determined by the release draft
3. Commit & push to remote by running `git commit -am "Release - vX.X.X"` and `git push`
4. Create a PR titled "Release vX.X.X" and add the label `skip-changelog`
5. Merge the PR and publish the release

### Failed Release due to `npm version`

If you don't properly match the `npm version` with the tag, it will block the release from being published. If you get into this state you need to:

1. Delete the release
2. Delete the tag
3. Manually re-run the "Release Drafter" using `workflow_dispatch`
4. Go through the release process again (and don't screw it up)
